ODIS Docs (#4762)
celo-org/celo-monorepo: packages/docs/developer-resources/contractkit/odis.md

> # Calling Oblivious Decentralized Identifier Service (ODIS)

Reviewer: Nit: markdown should have empty lines around headers. I recommend the `markdownlint` vscode plugin to catch these!
Ideally we should add a lint check to the CI too at some point

> This guide walks through using Contract Kit to query the on-chain identifier given a phone number or other identifier (ex. Twitter handle). See [this overview document](../../celo-codebase/protocol/identity/phone-number-privacy.md) for more details on ODIS. One of Celo's key features is the ability to tie a phone number to a Celo address. This provides a convenient payment experience for Celo users. To map a phone number to an address, the on-chain identifier for a given phone number must first be retrieved. With this identifier, the address can be looked up on-chain.

Reviewer: I worry that mentioning Twitter implies we support other attestation types. Atm we don't

{% hint style="info" %}

> ODIS requests are rate-limited based on transaction fees. Ensure the account that is performing the queries has a balance and has performed transactions on the network. If an out of quota error is hit, this indicates that more transactions need to be performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ODIS requests are rate-limited based on transaction history and balance. Ensure the account that is performing the queries has a balance and has performed transactions on the network. If an out of quota error is hit, this indicates that more transactions need to be sent from the querying account.
```

{% endhint %}

There are two methods for ODIS:
1. `getPhoneNumberIdentifier` - Query and compute the identifier for a phone number
2. `getContactMatches` - Find mutual connections between users

## Authentication
Both methods require authentication to the ODIS server, which can be performed by either the main wallet key or the data-encryption key (DEK) associated with the wallet key. This is managed by `AuthSigner`, which can be either a `WalletKeySigner` for a wallet key or an `EncryptionKeySigner` for the DEK. The DEK method is preferred, since it doesn't require the user to access the same key that manages their funds. Before using the DEK, it's important to check that the DEK is the latest that's registered for a user. 
```ts
  // Query the on-chain data encryption key for a user
  const accountWrapper: AccountsWrapper = await contractKit.contracts.getAccounts()

>   const dataEncryptionKey = accountWrapper.getDataEncryptionKey(address)

Reviewer: I think this snippet may be misleading. It may lead people to think they can get the DEK private key from the contract. Should we cut it and assume that queries already have some solution for DEK management? A link to a doc about the DEK may do more good here.

Author: Good suggestion. I'll create a new DEK doc and link it.

  // Check that this matches with the public key
  ...
```

If it matches, you may use the `EncryptionKeySigner` for your `AuthSigner` by passing in the raw private key:
```ts
  const authSigner: AuthSigner = {
    authenticationMethod: OdisUtils.Query.AuthenticationMethod.ENCRYPTION_KEY,
    rawKey: privateDataKey,
  }
```

Otherwise, you should use the `WalletKeySigner`:
```ts
  const authSigner: AuthSigner = {
    authenticationMethod: OdisUtils.Query.AuthenticationMethod.WALLET_KEY,
    contractKit,
  }
```

## Service Context 
The `ServiceContext` object provides the ODIS endpoint URL and the ODIS public key (same as above).
```ts
const serviceContext: ServiceContext = {
    odisUrl,
    odisPubKey,
  }
```

The ODIS endpoint URL for each environment can be found here:
| Environment  | Key  | 
|---|---|

> |  Alfajores Staging | https://alfajoresstaging-dot-celo-testnet.wl.r.appspot.com |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Alfajores Staging | https://us-central1-celo-phone-number-privacy-stg.cloudfunctions.net |
```

| Alfajores  | https://us-central1-celo-phone-number-privacy.cloudfunctions.net |

> | Mainnet  |  https://us-central1-celo-odis-mainnet.cloudfunctions.net |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Mainnet  |  https://us-central1-celo-pgpnp-mainnet.cloudfunctions.net |
```

Reviewer: It's still pgpnp for now

The ODIS public key for each environment can be found here:
| Environment  | Key  | 
|---|---|
|  Alfajores Staging | 7FsWGsFnmVvRfMDpzz95Np76wf/1sPaK0Og9yiB+P8QbjiC8FV67NBans9hzZEkBaQMhiapzgMR6CkZIZPvgwQboAxl65JWRZecGe5V3XO4sdKeNemdAZ2TzQuWkuZoA  |
| Alfajores  |  kPoRxWdEdZ/Nd3uQnp3FJFs54zuiS+ksqvOm9x8vY6KHPG8jrfqysvIRU0wtqYsBKA7SoAsICMBv8C/Fb2ZpDOqhSqvr/sZbZoHmQfvbqrzbtDIPvUIrHgRS0ydJCMsA |
| Mainnet  |  FvreHfLmhBjwxHxsxeyrcOLtSonC9j7K3WrS4QapYsQH6LdaDTaNGmnlQMfFY04Bp/K4wAvqQwO9/bqPVCKf8Ze8OZo8Frmog4JY4xAiwrsqOXxug11+htjEe1pj4uMA |

## Query phone number identifier
This call consumes quota. When the user runs out of quota, it's recommended to prompt the user to "purchase" more quota by sending a transaction to themselves. This method returns the pepper retrieved from the service as well as the the computed on-chain identifier that is generated using this pepper and the phone number.

### BLS Blinding Client

> It's important for user privacy that the ODIS servers don't have the ability to view the raw phone number. Before making the request, the library first blinds the phone number using a BLS library. This prevents the ODIS from being able to see the phone number but still makes the resulting signature recoverable to the original phone number. The blinding client is written in Web Assembly, which is not compatible with React native. If you choose not to pass in a `BLSBlindingClient` it will default to the Web Assembly version. You may create a `ReactBlindingClient` by calling the constructor with the ODIS public key:

Reviewer: > The blinding client is written in Web Assembly
It's written in Rust and compiled to WASM / mobile native. How about we link to the repo?
https://github.com/celo-org/celo-threshold-bls-rs

```ts
const blsBlindingClient = new ReactBlsBlindingClient(odisPubKey)
```
Or use the `WasmBlsBlindingClient` if your runtime environment supports Web Assembly:
```ts

> const blsBlindingClient = new WasmBlsBlindingClient(odisPubKey)

Reviewer: Why mention this when the CK code creates the Wasm client for us?

Author: Sometime people (like me) copy the code without reading the instructions, so I wanted to add this to force devs to actively choose.

```

Now you're ready to get the phone number identifier. Call `OdisUtils.PhoneNumberIdentifier.getPhoneNumberIdentifier` and pass in the following parameters:

> | Parameter  | Type | Required | Description  |

Reviewer: I think the auto-gen docs are better suited to this kind of info. Param lists can quickly get out of date.

| clientVersion | string | no | The client's version. Caller should prefix the version with a unique app identifier (ex. "celocli-1.0.0") |
| blsBlindingClient | BlsBlindingClient | no | The BLS blinding client described above |

The response will be an object with the original phone number, the on-chain identifier (phoneHash), and the phone number's pepper.
```ts
PhoneNumberHashDetails {
  e164Number: string
  phoneHash: string
  pepper: string
}
```

You can view an example of this call in [our mobile project here](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/blob/master/packages/mobile/src/identity/privateHashing.ts).

## Matchmaking

Instead of querying for all the user's contact's peppers and consuming the user's quota, it's recommended to only query the pepper before it's actually used (ex. just before sending funds). However, sometimes it's helpful to let your users know that they have contacts already using the Celo network. To do this, you can make use of the matchmaking interface. Given two phone numbers, it will let you know whether the other party has also registered on the Celo network with this identifier.

> Call `OdisUtils.Matchmaking.getContactMatches` and pass in the following parameters:

Reviewer: ditto

Author: Good point

# Calling Oblivious Decentralized Identifier Service (ODIS)

> This guide walks through using Contract Kit to query the on-chain identifier given a phone number. See [this overview document](../../celo-codebase/protocol/identity/phone-number-privacy.md) for more details on ODIS. One of Celo's key features is the ability to tie a phone number to a Celo address. This provides a convenient payment experience for Celo users. To map a phone number to an address, the on-chain identifier for a given phone number must first be retrieved. With this identifier, the address can be looked up on-chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide walks through using ContractKit to query the on-chain identifier given a phone number. See [this overview document](../../celo-codebase/protocol/identity/phone-number-privacy.md) for more details on ODIS. One of Celo's key features is the ability to associate a phone number to a Celo address. This provides a convenient payment experience for Celo users. To map a phone number to an address, the on-chain identifier for a given phone number must first be retrieved. With this identifier, the address can be looked up on-chain.
```
